HIP 90: Indefinitely Reduce IOT Location Assertion Cost (#722)
helium/HIP: 0000-reduce-iot-location-assert-cost-indefinitely.md

# HIP X: Reduce IOT location assert cost indefinitely

- Author(s): @nosmaster89
- Start Date: 2023-06-22
- Category: Economic 
- Original HIP PR: 722
- Tracking Issue: <!-- leave this empty; maintainer will create a discussion issue -->
- Vote Requirements: veIOT Holders

## Summary

> This hip proposes an adjustment to the hotspot relocation fees on the network. Currently, as per the migration HIP-69, the assert fees for IoT hotspots
> have been halved. However, this adjustment is set to expire on July 20th, 2023, UTC, after which the assert fee will increase back to $10. This
> proposal suggests maintaining the reduced fee to encourage hotspot relocation and support future HIPss aiming to distribute hotspots in densely 
> populated areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This HIP proposes an adjustment to the Hotspot location assertion fees on the network. Currently, as per [HIP-69](https://github.com/helium/HIP/blob/main/0069-reassertion-fee-reduction.md) and since the Solana migration, the fees for IOT hotspots were halved. However, this adjustment is set to expire on July 20th, 2023, UTC, after which the fee will increase back to $10 in Data Credits. This proposal suggests maintaining the reduced fee to encourage hotspot relocation and support future HIPs aiming to distribute hotspots in densely populated areas.
```

## Motivation
The key motivations behind this proposal are as follows:

- Lowering the cost for hosts to relocate their hotspots going forward, facilitating better network coverage and decentralization.
- Establishing a minimum fee that reflects the network's expectations for hotspot relocation, ensuring a longer-term commitment from hotspot owners.

## Stakeholders
IOT Hotspot Makers, who will not have to pay the increased 1M DC ($10) Location assert fee on the first location reassertions.
IOT Hotspot owners, who will not have to pay the increased 1M DC ($10) Location assert fee on subsequent location reassertions.

> And This proposal impacts the entire network as it affects the amount of DC burned, which influences the economics of all subdaos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And this proposal impacts the entire network as it affects the amount of DC burned, which influences the economics of all networks.
```
